We have been replaced.
This, Drina,
THIS is your affair of state.
I have to admit,
I am rather drawn to Peel.
My first loyalty
is to the British throne.
I think of you in the palace.
And then I think,
'That should have been my life.'
I wanted to tell you that I will
be going back to Coburg shortly.
You will be back soon.
A christening, perhaps.
I grasp that the constitution
demands an heir.
But to make me feel
I own no other function.
#  Gloriana
# Hallelujah
# Gloriana
# Hallelujah! #
Oh, I am so bored of this.
No riding, no dancing.
Nothing but Sir James
and his camphor lozenges,
and Mama telling me how,
when she was pregnant,
she had to cross Europe
in a stagecoach,
so that I could be born in England.
Albert?
Albert, you're not listening.
I am, very attentively.
You do not like being with child
because it means you cannot dance
and your mother is always
talking about her travels.
Oh, and you detest camphor lozenges.
You're not very sympathetic.
I am not reading this periodical
for my own amusement, you know.
"What is the difference between
a tube and a foolish Dutchman?
One is a hollow cylinder
and the other is a silly Hollander."
Quite right.
"Who is the greatest chicken killer
in Shakespeare's plays?
Macbeth,
because he did murder most foul."
(CHUCKLES)
I...
It's just... That's rather funny.
We are not amused.
Majesty, Your Royal Highness,
forgive me.
I did not realise you were occupied.
No longer.
Where are you going?
I thought I would go for a ride.
It's such a lovely day.
I am sure the Baroness
can amuse you in my absence.
(SIGHS)
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
Sir.
I did not know you were a member,
Leopold.
Are you in the country long?
About the same time as you.
We are here for the same reason.
Although, I suspect,
we hope for different results.
Duke of Cumberland's back, I see.
Isn't he the King of Hanover now?
I'd rather be an English duke
than king of a German postage stamp,
begging your pardon, Herr Lohlein.
Perhaps I am in agreement, Mr Penge.
Well, I'd rather be a king
than an attendant lord.
I'm reading Shakespeare, Mr Penge.
All the dukes want to become kings.
And that's why Cumberland's here.
What does the King or the Duke,
whatever he is, have to do with it?
If the Queen should not survive
the travails of childbirth
and if the infant should die,
then the Duke of Cumberland
will not just be King of Hanover,
but of Great Britain and Ireland.
Prince Albert will be
on the next packet back to Coburg,
and we can start looking
for new positions.
That's enough, Mr Penge!
The Queen is a young, healthy woman!
Princess Charlotte
was a healthy young woman,
and look what happened to her.
Nasty, dangerous business.
Come on.
Penge is right, you know.
We should all be thinking
about our future, just in case.
(KNOCKING AT DOOR)
Yes?
Thank you.
"Do nothing until you receive
instructions from Hanover."
How is the Queen, sir?
Restless.
I believe she will be happier
when the child is born.
She does not like to wait.
The King of Hanover has returned.
Really?
You know, I have not yet had
the pleasure of meeting the King.
He did not attend the wedding.
Too busy overturning
the constitution in Hanover.
He's set it up as his own fiefdom.
And now he comes here
to await the Queen's confinement?
Like a vulture circling its prey.
A word of warning, sir.
He is next in line to the throne.
The Queen should take care.
Really, I wish people would wait
until afterwards.
I can't help feeling like all these
presents are tempting providence.
I want this to be over.
I think about Charlotte.
I am scared.
Don't be scared, my Liebes,
nothing will happen to you.
No queen regnant
has ever given birth before.
But there has never been
such a queen as you are.
A queen. A wife.
And soon to be a mother.
You know, no-one, not even Albert,
looks at me any more.
Just...this.
You still see me, don't you, Lehzen?
I live to serve you, Majesty.
Dear Albert!
Has my nephew arrived yet?
Ernest.
You look so serious.
Good thing I'm here.
I missed you.
Well, then, why the long face?
I hope that is the only reason
you have come back, Ernest.
You mean my little flirtation?
It was merely a distraction from the
very serious job of cheering you up.
I'm expecting another load
by the next post, Baroness.
Are you not going to open that one?
No need. I know who it is from.
Captain Childers.
He writes every week.
He professes his undying love
and offers to rescue the Queen
from her cruel imprisonment
"at the hands
of that German tyrant".
German tyrant, eh? What a notion.
That will be all, Penge.
I believe this is yours, Duchess.
Indeed it is.
I must have dropped it somewhere.
I think I should attend
to the Queen.
Albert and Victoria
seem less comfortable with
each other since I was last here.
Well, the first year is always hard.
Then you get used to one another
and...
things don't seem to matter
so urgently.
Is that why people marry these days?
For things not to matter any more?
I don't know, sir. I can only speak
from my own experience.
If you had married
a different kind of man,
one who thought about you
every moment you were apart,
one who saw the way the curls
fell on your neck in his dreams,
then I think your experience
would be different.
Perhaps you are right.
Did you miss me?
I suppose there were moments
when I pondered
the whereabouts of my handkerchief.
I have decided
to take a turn in the park.
Supposing
one of the horses were to bolt,
think what might happen to the baby.
Or me, Mama.
Honestly! I'll be quite safe.
I have no intention
of being imprisoned here
as I was at Kensington.
You have no idea of the sacrifice
involved in being a mother.
I was not one of
those English ladies who send
their children away to be nursed.
I fed you myself
and watched over you every minute.
And I am grateful, Mama.
Now, if you will excuse me,
I have things to attend to.
I want you to find me a wet nurse
immediately.
So you will not be following
your mother's example?
She is not a queen
and I am not a cow.
Albert prefers Windsor,
but I like London.
Sutherland would not stir
from the country
if he didn't have
to go to the House.
Maybe marriage makes men
less sociable.
(EXCITED CHATTER)
MAN: There she is.
God save the Queen!
Halt.
Make way, make way. Ma'am, I believe
a cart has broken down ahead.
I'll see what I can do
to hasten things.
Gentlemen, dismount! Make way.
Make way.
Your Majesty!
Majesty, are you hurt?
I don't think I am in any danger
from a bunch of flowers.
Your Majesty,
forgive me approaching you
in such an uncouth manner, but...
I must speak with you
on a matter of great urgency.
I am Captain Childers
and I have come to rescue you
from your present situation.
Thank you, Captain Childers,
but my equerry
is dealing with the obstacle ahead.
Your Majesty,
perhaps we should move on.
You misunderstand me, Your Majesty.
I have come to free you
from your golden cage.
Indeed.
You, sir, pick up this detritus!
I have a house of elegant
proportions in Paternoster Row
where you can be free
from the German tyrant.
Arrest that man!
Quickly, sir!
Thank you, Captain Childers,
but that won't be necessary.
Your Majesty.
No!
Everything I have is yours,
Your Majesty!
Everything!
(CHEERING)
Are you all right, ma'am?
I think perhaps it's...
time to go home.
Thank God,
it was only a man with flowers.
Sir Robert is concerned
there might be trouble
now that your Uncle Cumberland
has returned.
He thinks it may be wise
for you to stay at home for a while.
So do I.
What might the people say when they
hear their Queen is so frightened
of men throwing violets that
she refuses to leave the palace?
Victoria, please.
The most important thing right now
is for you and I
to have a healthy child.
That is what this country needs.
Do you ever imagine
what I might need?
Am I simply a vessel to be protected
because I am carrying precious cargo?
Is that what you think of me, Albert?
You and your dear Sir Robert?
His Royal Highness
the King of Hanover.
Your Majesty,
allow me to congratulate you
in person on your marriage.
I trust you received our present?
Indeed. So thoughtful of you.
A palace this size
can never have too many teaspoons.
It is so very nice
to be back in England and know
that one has not been forgotten.
You know, on the way here,
I was actually cheered.
London mobs are so easily procured.
I understand that you have become
acquainted with Sir Robert Peel.
He is a man of great ability.
How very wise of you
to befriend the man
who must be the next prime minister,
and a necessary ally
in the unfortunate event
of you becoming regent.
The country will not take kindly
to being ruled by a German.
Since you are tactless enough
to allude to such an event
in front of the Queen,
perhaps I should mention
that Parliament were unanimous
in supporting Albert as regent.
They could have voted for you,
of course,
but - for some reason -
they did not.
Goodbye, Uncle.
Goodbye, Victoria.
And I do hope you will take care.
What do you mean?
These daily drives of yours.
London seems so volatile to me.
And it would be unfortunate
if violets were to be replaced
with something harder.
Do you know what I have here, Nancy?
A letter from
the secretary of White's club
offering to set me up
in my own establishment.
Are you going to accept?
That depends.
On what?
I don't want to do it alone.
I must go.
It's not just the size, Baroness.
(BABIES CRYING)
Lift your arm.
You have to look at the shape also.
Filling the palace with this
female rabble and their infants
at a time like this! Have you
lost your mind, Mrs Jenkins?
Mrs Jenkins is acting
under my instructions, Penge.
Then I must ask the Baroness
the same question.
The Queen has asked me
to find a wet nurse.
So you invited a selection
of some of the most disreputable
women in London into the palace?
Have you got no regard
for the Queen's safety?
Who are you calling disreputable?
I see wet nurses here, Penge,
not would-be assassins!
I have watched over the Queen
every day for the last 15 years!
Do you really imagine
I would do anything
that would put her in harm's way?
By the way, Baroness, the Prince
would like to speak with you.
Really? And he sent you to find me?
I believe
it is a matter of some urgency.
Captain Childers has been writing
to the Queen for years.
You did not find it necessary
to inform me of this correspondence?
The Queen knew about it.
She considered him harmless enough.
His only weapon
was a bunch of violets, sir.
In the future, Lehzen,
I would like to receive
all of the Queen's correspondence.
Is that the Queen's wish?
It's quite cold today, ma'am.
Are you sure you will be warm
enough without your pelisse?
(SIGHS) I am so hot all the time.
I had no idea
I would be so uncomfortable.
I have a friend, ma'am, who felt
the same as you at this stage,
but when she held that baby
in her arms,
she said, all that unpleasantness,
it was like it never happened.
She had no regrets, your friend?
She worships that child, ma'am.
What are you doing?
Well, it is three o'clock
and I have my bonnet on.
I rather think I'm going for a drive.
It's my duty
to show myself to my people.
But why? It's too dangerous.
I was in more danger
when Uncle Cumberland was here.
Thank you, Baroness,
but I have decided
to be my wife's companion today.
I am so glad.
This does not mean I approve.
Did he make these?
Mm.
Well, he knows what he's about.
He's been offered
his own establishment.
He wants me to go with him, Eliza.
And you told him that a queen's
dresser with her own money coming in
doesn't give it up
to follow a pastry cook.
Look at me.
Look at my situation.
This is where you end up,
if you believe in a man's promise.
But he cares for me. I know he does.
I'm sure he does now.
But why would you put your trust
in him or any man?
If I went with him...
..I would still care for you both.
You won't be able to care
for anyone if he abandons you
with a bun in the oven.
He would never do that.
You have your freedom, Nancy.
Don't give it up for a man.
(PIANO PLAYING MELANCHOLY TUNE)
Do you like it?
It's rather sad.
I wrote it
when I was back in Coburg.
But I am much happier now.
I think...perhaps
you should have stayed in Coburg.
But we have nothing
to fear from what...
"a harmless flirtation",
is that not what you called it?
Is that what you think?
No, I don't think any more,
I just feel.
I don't have that luxury.
Not even for a few hours?
The Duchess and King Leopold
are coming back from their walk.
You see, you needn't have worried.
Look how happy
the people are to see us.
(CHATTER)
(CHEERING)
(SCREAMING)
God save the Queen!
Are you hurt?
My love.
You're safe.
The pulse is a little weak.
You must rest, ma'am.
My poor child.
You are so brave always,
but I think
you should also be careful.
Now you understand why Sir John
and I kept you safe at Kensington.
I always knew
your wicked Uncle Cumberland
would try to kill you one day.
He murdered his valet
before you were born.
Nothing was proved,
but I remember, no-one
had trouble believing he was guilty.
Do you really think
Uncle Cumberland would try
and shoot me in broad daylight?
Not him, but one of his creatures.
I am afraid, Victoria,
that the world
is more dangerous than you think.
His name is Edward Oxford,
Your Royal Highness.
19 years of age, working until
recently at the Hog in the Pound
tavern near Oxford Street.
A search of his lodgings
has revealed that he is a member
of the Young England Society.
Young England?
Are they Chartists?
Our informant says not.
The Society appears to have
connections to the continent.
We found a letter telling Oxford
to await instructions from Hanover.
Hanover?
You think that Oxford
is my uncle's creature?
I know he feels he must be king.
But to do such a thing?
He may not have given the order
himself, but...
..I believe it is possible that this
Young England Society has been...
..plotting to kill you.
Oxford will pay the penalty
for treason.
Yes.
He might have killed you.
And then
my life would have been over.
Portland.
Sir Robert.
Your Majesty.
Did you see just now,
the Duke of Portland
gave me the cut direct?
If I were a younger man,
I would call him out.
I cannot say that I blame him, sir.
Surely you cannot believe
that a senior member
of the British royal family
would contemplate regicide?
And that I would choose
as my instrument a half-witted
pot boy from south of the river?
It is an unfortunate coincidence,
then, that you should be here
at the time of the attack.
Of course I am here.
I am the heir presumptive
and childbirth
is a perilous business.
Her Majesty has the advantage of the
best doctors in the country, sir.
Set your mind at rest.
This letter mentions instructions
to come from Hanover.
Would those instructions be
from a royal personage, Mr Oxford?
Someone
who would inherit the throne,
if you succeeded
in assassinating the Queen.
I am not at liberty to say.
You do realise, Mr Oxford,
we can charge you with treason.
And if found guilty, you will be
hung, drawn and quartered.
It doesn't matter
what happens to me.
Young England will make sure
that my name lives on.
I just want it to be over.
(SOBS)
Anything?
No, sir. Nothing, sir.
I-I saw him fire at me.
It appears, Your Royal Highness,
that Oxford's guns were not loaded.
Hmph. Not much of an assassin.
There is another thing, sir.
The Young England Society.
Have you found the men?
In a manner of speaking, sir.
A copy of Mr Midshipman Easy
by Captain Marryat
was found in Oxford's lodgings.
I made a list
of the dramatis personae.
If you put them alongside
the members of Young England...
But...what about the instructions
from Hanover?
I believe Oxford
was writing to himself, Sir Robert.
I see.
Even so...
he's guilty.
No?
So, have you done this before?
Well, yes.
Oh, yes, of course.
Well,
if Mrs Jenkins vouches for you.
She's from Newport, Baroness.
Do you know when I will be needed,
Your Ladyship?
I have to make arrangements...
to look after him.
I understand that the Queen's
confinement could be quite soon.
Any day now by my calculations.
Thank you.
If only I could take her place.
The Queen is so fragile,
so delicate...
If anything should happen.
I think the Queen is a lot stronger
than you think, ma'am.
(PIANO PLAYS)
(SINGS IN GERMAN)
A note, Your Royal Highness.
Albert, what?
What is it? What's happened?
It's from Sir Robert.
He's at the Oxford trial.
He is concerned
Oxford will be acquitted
on the grounds of insanity.
12 good men and true, so gullible,
so...inefficient.
I think that in Belgium
we arrange these things better.
Do the British people have no
concern for their Queen's safety?
Drina!
Victoria?
If Oxford goes free,
then I become a prisoner.
How can I continue
if there is no punishment
for a man who tries to kill me?
And there will be no freedom
for our child either.
Forced to grow up in the shadows,
just as I was.
I will keep you safe. I promise.
I know, Albert.
But I want to be free.
There you are.
Have you thought about my offer,
Nancy?
I have thought about it, yes.
But my answer is no.
I have everything I need here.
Money, position.
If I play my cards right,
I might be Mrs Skerrett one day
with an assistant of my own.
I would call you Mrs Francatelli
tomorrow.
(SIZZLING)
Look what you've made me do.
I suppose you think
I should be grateful to you
for making me an offer
despite knowing where I come from.
I don't care about that.
I want you by my side because you...
..you are smart enough
to make your way anywhere.
Smart enough to know
that what I have here at the palace
is better than anything
you could offer me.
Then I am sorry
to have bothered you,
Miss Skerrett.
I believe the would-be assassin
to be completely insane.
That at least means
the extraordinary rumours
concerning my involvement
have been laid to rest.
"Instructions from Hanover" indeed!
Preposterous.
And yet everyone believed them.
I hope Oxford is not released
for your sake, Victoria.
That is why I abolished
the constitution in Hanover.
In my kingdom
there is no bleating about liberty,
whilst regicides go unpunished.
If Oxford had taken a shot at me,
he would be strung up by now,
bullets or no bullets.
And you think
that's what I should do?
Well, you're hardly in a position
to do so.
You know, Uncle...
..there have been times
when I have doubted my own judgement.
But there is one thing
of which I am quite certain.
That however many mistakes
I have made,
or perhaps I'm yet to make...
..I know I am a better monarch
than you could ever be.
I spoke with Lehzen earlier.
How is the Baroness?
Distressed.
She's no longer handling
my unofficial correspondence.
I don't remember giving that order.
The Baroness is not...competent.
She does not realise
how vulnerable you are.
Surely that is for me to decide?
I am not a little girl.
No.
You are going to be a mother.
FOOTMAN: Sir Robert Peel.
Oxford is to be detained at Bedlam
at Your Majesty's pleasure.
The man tried to kill us.
There is no evidence
that the guns were loaded.
And it is clear
from the testimony of the doctors
that Oxford is not of sound mind.
There is some suggestion
that he carries an hereditary taint.
How can we feel safe if an English
jury will not convict a man who
fired at his Queen in plain sight?
When I took the coronation oath,
I swore to uphold
the laws of this nation under God.
If an English jury believes
this man is not of sound mind,
then we must accept that verdict,
whatever our own feelings.
And furthermore, to show how much
we believe in English justice,
we will go for a drive
this afternoon.
This is madness.
And what do you think, Sir Robert?
Am I of unsound mind?
On the contrary, ma'am.
I think...
I have never heard
a monarch say a wiser thing.
A very nice job.
Tell me, Mr Brodie,
are you to be trusted?
The better part of valour is
discretion, Your Serene Highness.
I have a letter
that I would like you to deliver
to the Duchess of Sutherland.
(CHEERING)
Did you hear those cheers? They were
even louder than at my coronation.
I know this matters to you,
Victoria, so I am glad.
Doesn't it matter to you, my love?
Don't you care what people think?
Of course.
But more than anything
I care about you and the baby.
I have allowed that
to cloud my judgement.
You know what it takes
to be a monarch.
You are my Queen.
(KNOCKING AT DOOR)
(DOOR OPENS)
(DOOR CLOSES)
Thank you for letting me come.
It's madness, but I couldn't find
the words to refuse.
Will you do what I ask?
May I?
I wish I could make you happy.
We have this moment. We are
together. That is all that matters.
This moment, yes.
I never thought
I could understand...
Neither did I.
And I have been looking for it
my whole life.
The favour I asked for in my note.
Will you give it to me?
I am glad to see
you have an appetite, Victoria.
You must be strong
for what lies ahead.
Charlotte used to like sweets too,
but her doctors
would not let her eat them.
It made her so unhappy.
I wish so much now
that I had given her
all the marron glaces
that she wanted.
You and Albert,
you remind me so much of her.
Much...
I have changed my religion,
as you know,
but for you
I pray in every denomination.
Thank you.
How was our child?
(SIGHS)
A little wriggle pants tonight.
I shan't be long.
Ernest... I must speak with you
about something.
From the look on your face,
I suspect you are about
to reprimand me.
You were seen, Ernest,
coming out of her room.
You promised me
you would not continue with this.
That this...folly...
Folly? Oh, yes, I suppose
that is what it must look like
to the Queen of England's husband.
You were in her room.
Do you remember,
in our room in Rosenau,
how you used to climb
to the top of the cupboard
and throw yourself off?
You were so scared, and yet
I was always there to catch you.
You trusted me.
Ernest, how can I?
Yes, I went to Harriet's room
last night.
And if I were the man that you think
I am, I could have taken everything.
But I chose not to,
out of a love for her,
and I suppose a love for you too.
I want her so much...
..but all I took in her room
was this.
A lock of her hair.
Nothing more.
(EXHALES SHARPLY)
(GROANS)
Albert, Albert.
Albert!
Yes.
It's starting.
I'm scared.
There is nothing to be scared of.
It's started.
(SCREAMS)
It won't be long now.
Albert!
(SCREAMS)
What are all those men doing there?
Apparently, it is the custom,
in case there is a substitution.
Tell them all to go away!
Everybody, please, out! Out.
Mama! Mama!
Argh!
Mama!
Breathe. Breathe.
(WHIMPERS)
(LAUGHS)
(STRAINS AND SCREAMS)
Albert. Albert.
You're strong.
(STRAINS AND SCREAMS)
(BELLS RINGING)
(BABY CRIES)
Good morning.
Morning, gentlemen.
The Queen's correspondence,
Baroness.
Thank you, Penge.
Oh.
I'm sorry.
I am so proud of you, my darling.
And I'm glad I still have you.
Did you really think
I would let Cumberland be King?
Do you mind that she's a girl?
We'll have a boy next time.
I think she's perfection.
We should call her Victoria...
..after a great queen.
subtitles by Deluxe
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org